W-14036145-raise-error-cv (#131)
mulesoft/docs-code-builder: modules/ROOT/pages/_partials/mule-components/4.4/component-raise-error.adoc

//
//tag::component-title[]

= Raise Error (<raise-error/>)

//end::component-title[]
//

//
//tag::component-short-description[]
//     Short description of the form "Do something..." 
//     Example: "Configure log messages anywhere in a flow."

> Generates a Mule error, as if a failure had occurred. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Generates a Mule error to simulate a failure as you develop an application. 
```
```suggestion
Generates a Mule error. 
```

> Generates a Mule error, as if a failure had occurred. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Generates a Mule error to simulate a failure. 
```

Reviewer: I'm not sure what the main use case for this is, whether just for testing in development or in actual production.

Reviewer: Do developers use this in production apps?

//end::component-short-description[]
//

//
//tag::component-long-description[]

You can customize the error's description and type. Use this component to raise:

> * Core runtime errors, such as `MULE:SECURITY`, `MULE:CONNECTIVITY`, etc.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Core runtime errors, such as `MULE:SECURITY` and `MULE:CONNECTIVITY`.
```

* Custom error types.

> You cannot raise an error from another connector or module like `FILE:FILE_NOT_FOUND`, `JSON:INVALID_SCHEMA`. You cannot use a connector's existing namespace.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You cannot raise an error from another connector or module, such as `FILE:FILE_NOT_FOUND` or `JSON:INVALID_SCHEMA`. You cannot use a connector's existing namespace.
```

|===
//end::component-xml-root[]
//
//
//TABLE (IF NEEDED): CHILD XML ATTRIBUTES for each child element
//  Repeat as needed, adding the next number to the tag value. 
//  Provide intro text, as needed.
//tag::component-xml-child1[]

[%header, cols="1,3"]
|===
| <CHILD_ELEMENT/> Attributes | Description

| `attribute_here` | DESCRIPTION_HERE_WITH_DEFAULT_IF_AVAILABLE Defaults to `DEFAULT_HERE`.
| `attribute_here` | DESCRIPTION_HERE_WITH_DEFAULT_IF_AVAILABLE Defaults to `DEFAULT_HERE`.

|===
//end::component-xml-child1[]
//
//
//TABLE (IF NEEDED): GRANDCHILD XML ATTRIBUTES for each grandchild element
//  Repeat as needed, adding the next number to the tag value. 
//  Provide intro text, as needed.
//TAG
//tag::component-xml-descendant1[]
[%header, cols="1,3"]
|===
| <GRANDCHILD_ELEMENT/> Attributes | Description

| `attribute_here` | DESCRIPTION_HERE_WITH_DEFAULT_IF_AVAILABLE Defaults to `DEFAULT_HERE`.
| `attribute_here` | DESCRIPTION_HERE_WITH_DEFAULT_IF_AVAILABLE Defaults to `DEFAULT_HERE`.

|===
//end::component-xml-descendant1[]
//

//SECTION: EXAMPLES
//
//tag::component-examples-title[]

== Examples

//end::component-examples-title[]

//tag::component-examples-intro[]

> The following examples show how to raise a custom error when a user provides an invalid value while making an API request and raise a custom error after comparing a value received in an API response. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following examples show how to raise a custom error when a user provides an invalid value while making an API request and after comparing a value received in an API response. 
```

//end::component-examples-intro[]

//
//tag::component-xml-ex1[]
[[example1]]

=== Example: Raising an Error After an Invalid User Input 

> The following example of a driving lessons platform checks that the user is over 16 years old to drive. The flow raises a custom `PRECONDITIONS:INCORRECT_AGE` error when the user enters an age lower than 16 years.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example of a driving lessons platform checks that the user is over 16 years old. The flow raises a custom `PRECONDITIONS:INCORRECT_AGE` error when the user enters an age lower than 16 years.
```

> * The Choice router components adds conditional processing to the flow.

Reviewer: Since all these bullets are an sequence, I wonder if they should be numbered instead. Maybe we could add corresponding numbers to the  XML.

> * If the age parameter sent in the request is lower than 16 `+http://localhost:8081/test?age=15+`, the Raise Error component raises the error type `PRECONDITIONS:INCORRECT_AGE` and description `Minimum age of 16 required to drive`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* If the age parameter sent in the request is lower than 16 `+http://localhost:8081/test?age=15+`, the Raise Error component raises the error type `PRECONDITIONS:INCORRECT_AGE` with the description `Minimum age of 16 required to drive`.
```

* Then, an On-Error Continue component matches the type of the error `PRECONDITIONS:INCORRECT_AGE` and executes the Logger component inside its scope. The Logger component logs the error message `Minimum age of 16 required to drive`.
* If the age parameter is greater than 16 in the request `+http://localhost:8081/test?age=17+`, a Logger component returns the default message `User age above 16 years. Allowed to drive`.

> * If no age parameter is passed in the request `+http://localhost:8081/test+` the choice component automatically raises a `MULE:EXPRESSION` error when trying to evaluate the expression `#[message.attributes.queryParams.age &lt; 16]` because no age parameter was provided in the request, so its value is null.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* If no age parameter is passed in the request `+http://localhost:8081/test+` the choice component automatically raises a `MULE:EXPRESSION` error when trying to evaluate the expression `#[message.attributes.queryParams.age &lt; 16]`. No age parameter was provided in the request, so its value is null.
```

  <http:listener-connection host="0.0.0.0" port="8081" />
</http:listener-config>
<flow name="raise-error-example-flow">
  <http:listener config-ref="HTTP_Listener_config" path="/test"/>
  <choice>
    <when expression="#[message.attributes.queryParams.age &lt; 16]">
      <raise-error type="PRECONDITIONS:INCORRECT_AGE" description="Minimum age of 16 required to drive" />
    </when>
    <otherwise >
      <logger level="INFO" message="User age above 16 years. Allowed to drive"/>
    </otherwise>
  </choice>
  <error-handler >
    <on-error-continue enableNotifications="true" logException="true" type="PRECONDITIONS:INCORRECT_AGE">
      <logger level="INFO" message="Minimum age to drive is 16 years old"/>
    </on-error-continue>
    <on-error-continue enableNotifications="true" logException="true"  type="MULE:EXPRESSION">
      <logger level="INFO" message="The parameter age is missing or invalid"/>
    </on-error-continue>
  </error-handler>
</flow>
----

//OPTIONAL: SHOW OUTPUT IF HELPFUL
//The example produces the following output: 

//OUTPUT_HERE 

//end::component-xml-ex1[]
//
//
//tag::component-xml-ex2[]
[[example2]]

=== Example: Raising an Error After Comparing Values

> The following example makes a request to an API (+https://unsecurebank.com/balance+) and stores the returned account balance in the _balance_ variable, then compares the variable with `payload.amount` to determine if the operation is possible. The Choice router produces an `ACCOUNT:INSUFFICIENT_FUNDS` error when a transfer amount surpasses the available balance, preventing the transfer from taking place. Additionally, it generates a dynamic description by providing an expression with failure details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example makes a request to an API (+https://unsecurebank.com/balance+) and stores the returned account balance in the _balance_ variable, then compares the variable with `payload.amount` to determine if the operation is possible. The Choice router produces an `ACCOUNT:INSUFFICIENT_FUNDS` error when a transfer amount surpasses the available balance, preventing the transfer from taking place. The description dynamically provides failure details.
```
